Writing To Cells.md, before:

While there are functions for writing to a cell or a range of cells,
I have not been able to get it to work.
The error is
```
Exception: You do not have permission to call setValue
```

According to a [reply on the support forums](https://support.google.com/docs/thread/202011707/spreadsheet-no-permission-for-setvalue?hl=en) this is by design:

> You have written `SWAPPOSTCODE()` as a [custom function](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions).
> A custom function cannot modify cells directly, because that would require [authorization](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions#advanced).
> Custom functions can only return values to display in the formula cell.

See also [_Custom Functions in Google Sheets_ > _Advanced_ by Google at developers.google.com 2023](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions#advanced):

> Spreadsheet:
> Read only (can use most `get*()` methods, but not `set*()`).
> Cannot open other spreadsheets (`SpreadsheetApp.openById()` or `SpreadsheetApp.openByUrl()`).
>
> If your custom function throws the error message
>     `You do not have permission to call X service.`
> the service requires user authorization and thus cannot be used in a custom function.

There are some exceptions though.
One is when the writing function is triggered by a user action,
such as selecting an item from a menu, see [[Creating Menu Items]],
or when running the function from within the [[App Script Editor]].


To write to a cell or range of cells we must first get a hold of the cell range.
We then use either `setValue`, to set the same value to all cells in the range,
or `setValues`, to pass a two-dimensional array of values to set.
```js
function writeCells() {
	var sheet = SpreadsheetApp.getActiveSheet();
	var range = sheet.getRange("C5:D7");

	// Set all cells to 5.
	range.setValue(5);

	// Set different values to each cell.
	// The size of the two-dimensional array must match that of the range.
	var values = [
		[11, 12],
		[21, 22],
		[31, 32]
	];
	range.setValues
}
```

# References

- [_Spreadsheet no permission for setValue_ by --Hyde 2023](https://support.google.com/docs/thread/202011707/spreadsheet-no-permission-for-setvalue?hl=en)
- [_Custom Functions in Google Sheets_ > _Advanced_ by Google at developers.google.com 2023](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions#advanced)

Commit message:

Write about clearing cells in Writing To Cells

Writing To Cells.md, after:

# Permission

While there are functions for writing to a cell or a range of cells,
I have not been able to get it to work.
The error is
```
Exception: You do not have permission to call setValue
```

According to a [reply on the support forums](https://support.google.com/docs/thread/202011707/spreadsheet-no-permission-for-setvalue?hl=en) this is by design:

> You have written `SWAPPOSTCODE()` as a [custom function](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions).
> A custom function cannot modify cells directly, because that would require [authorization](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions#advanced).
> Custom functions can only return values to display in the formula cell.

See also [_Custom Functions in Google Sheets_ > _Advanced_ by Google at developers.google.com 2023](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions#advanced):

> Spreadsheet:
> Read only (can use most `get*()` methods, but not `set*()`).
> Cannot open other spreadsheets (`SpreadsheetApp.openById()` or `SpreadsheetApp.openByUrl()`).
>
> If your custom function throws the error message
>     `You do not have permission to call X service.`
> the service requires user authorization and thus cannot be used in a custom function.

There are some exceptions though.
One is when the writing function is triggered by a user action,
such as selecting an item from a menu, see [[Creating Menu Items]],
or when running the function from within the [[App Script Editor]].


# Writing Through A Range

To write to a cell or range of cells we must first get a hold of the cell range.
We then use either `setValue`, to set the same value to all cells in the range,
or `setValues`, to pass a two-dimensional array of values to set.
```js
function writeCells() {
	var sheet = SpreadsheetApp.getActiveSheet();
	var range = sheet.getRange("C5:D7");

	// Set all cells to 5.
	range.setValue(5);

	// Set different values to each cell.
	// The size of the two-dimensional array must match that of the range.
	var values = [
		[11, 12],
		[21, 22],
		[31, 32]
	];
	range.setValues
}
```

# Clearing  Cells

Cells identified by a [[Range]] are cleared with either:
- `Clear()` : Clear both content and formatting.
- `clearContent()`: Removes the data / formula from a cell, but not the formatting.
- `clearFormat`: Cell retain its data / formula, but formatting is reset to the default.
```js
function clearCells() {

}
```
# References

- [_Spreadsheet no permission for setValue_ by --Hyde 2023](https://support.google.com/docs/thread/202011707/spreadsheet-no-permission-for-setvalue?hl=en)
- [_Custom Functions in Google Sheets_ > _Advanced_ by Google at developers.google.com 2023](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/sheets/functions#advanced)
